##Zakasi Stereotype
I'd like to preface this by confessing that the Zakasi are a small part of a much larger work. Part of the rationale for this game is to give them a little character and depth they might not otherwise get. My goal is to create a zakasi stereotype similar in scope to the stereotypes J.R.R.Tolkien created for elves, dwarves, and orcs. Like any stereotype, it will necessarily be a caricature and will be of questionable value when applied to specific individuals, and yet like any caricature, its inherent inaccuracies do not detract from its practical value. Ultimately, it serves as a sort of aerial photograph of the species, and attempts to generalize from the mean to create an acceptable idea of the "default zakasi".

The core stereotype of the zakasi includes a noted preference for personal freedom, a respect for cleverness and not a great deal else, an individualistic outlook, a marked resistance towards taking things seriously, a propensity to greet the ebb and flow of fortune with jaded laughter, and general suspicion towards the motives of others.

Your stereotypical zakasi is sarcastic and decidedly irreverent. He is cynical, but also self-conscious, being naturally mistrustful and analytical, even of himself.  He often comes across as callous, on account of his readiness to laugh at the misfortunes of others. This habit comes from his ingrained belief in the efficacy of the individual, which in turn springs from a deep-seated individualism. Being of monstrous constitution, zakasi arebiologically better equipped than humans for indepent existence, and are inclined to see themselves as masters of their own fates. Zakasi are often considered harsh, even bitter, since most humans only acquire the typical zakasi attitude after being roughly disillusioned. In fact, this behavior is perceived as natural and wholesome by other zakasi. In most cases, the external sneer is a convenient cover for other, less respectable emotions, and the ability to maintain this attitude effectively is taken as a sign of self-mastery.

He does not place a great deal of value on moral virtue or external structure or order. Though not particularly anti-social, he is inclined towards individualism in the sense that he is more comfortable dealing with individuals than faceless groups, and is unwilling to have his ego absorbed into a mob. The fact that highly structured society (i.e., civilization) allows for greater leisure, security, and comfort means less to him than the fact that it curtails the freedoms he experiences in the state of nature. Consequently, when left to their own devices zakasi form autocracies when pure anarchy is impractical. Even in these cases, zakasi instincively prefer the informal and personal structures of the clan or the criminal organization to the elaborate, codified, multi-tiered systems associated with humans. This is the reason for the persistent barbarism, even with the possession of profound insight into the methods and advantages of civilized society, that so baffles members of the "civilized" races.

In constrast to orcs, who are stereotypically described as amoral but deeply respectful of brute force, zakasi, while being similarly amoral, admire cunning and trickery, and are largely unimpressed by raw strength, although they are not averse to its use when expedient. Your average zakasi is a tactician rather than a strategist, preferring to be given a few tools usable in inventive ways, rather than to be given an arsenal and asked to optimize its use. A few zakasi generalize this admiration of cunning into a respect for intelligence and intellectualism. As a rule, these can be recognized by an uncharacteristic reverence and idolization of the Zeshrani and their culture. Kikirak and Haikirak, for instance, both exhibit undisguised hero-worship towards Lord Ashras. This emphasis on quick wits and clever manipulation is part of the reason why, Though zakasi females are stronger and more aggressive, a large minority of males are able to achieve high ranks. Such things are conceived of as being secondary considerations.
 